README.md, before:

> This package is not officially related to Segment and is maintained by [Fleetio](https://fleetio.com). CI jobs run on PRs will only test for postgres compatibility. We're working on setting up a service account to support tests for Snowflake. Please submit an issue for any bugs/feature requests related to Redshift or BigQuery and we'll figure out how to help!

# dbt-segment
This [dbt package](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/package-management):
* Performs "user stitching" to tie all events associated with a cookie to the same user_id
* Transforms pageviews into sessions ("sessionization")


## Installation instructions
New to dbt packages? Read more about them [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/package-management/).
1. Include this package in your `packages.yml` — check [here](https://hub.getdbt.com/dbt-labs/segment/latest/) for the latest version number.
2. Run `dbt deps`
3. Include the following in your `dbt_project.yml` directly within your `vars:` block (making sure to handle indenting appropriately). **Update the value to point to your segment page views table**.

```YAML
# dbt_project.yml
config-version: 2
...

vars:
  dbt_segment:
    segment_page_views_table: "{{ source('segment', 'pages') }}"

```
This package assumes that your data is in a structure similar to the test
file included in [example_segment_pages](integration_tests/seeds/example_segment_pages.csv).
You may have to do some pre-processing in an upstream model to get it into this shape.
Similarly, if you need to union multiple sources, de-duplicate records, or filter
out bad records, do this in an upstream model.

4. Optionally configure extra parameters by adding them to your own `dbt_project.yml` file – see [dbt_project.yml](dbt_project.yml)
for more details:

```YAML
# dbt_project.yml
config-version: 2

...

vars:
  dbt_segment:
    segment_page_views_table: "{{ source('segment', 'pages') }}"
    segment_sessionization_trailing_window: 3
    segment_inactivity_cutoff: 30 * 60
    segment_pass_through_columns: []
    segment_bigquery_partition_granularity: 'day' # BigQuery only: partition granularity for `partition_by` config

```
5. Execute `dbt seed` -- this project includes a CSV that must be seeded for it
the package to run successfully.
6. Execute `dbt run` – the Segment models will get built as part of your run!

## Database support
This package has been tested on Redshift, Snowflake, BigQuery, and Postgres.

### Contributing
Additional contributions to this repo are very welcome! Check out [this post](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/contributing-to-a-dbt-package/657) on the best workflow for contributing to a package. All PRs should only include functionality that is contained within all Segment deployments; no implementation-specific details should be included. CI jobs run on PRs will only test for postgres compatibility.

Commit message:

refactor models, update readme
refactoring the models, adding the ability to support multiple segment data sources

README.md, after:

> This package is not officially related to Segment and is maintained by [Fleetio](https://fleetio.com). CI jobs run on PRs will only test for postgres compatibility. We're working on setting up a service account to support tests for Snowflake. Please submit an issue for any bugs/feature requests related to Redshift or BigQuery and we'll figure out how to help!

# dbt-segment
This [dbt package](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/package-management):
* Performs "user stitching" to tie all events associated with a cookie to the same user_id
* Transforms pageviews into sessions ("sessionization")


## Installation instructions
New to dbt packages? Read more about them [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/package-management/).
1. Include this package in your `packages.yml` — check [here](https://hub.getdbt.com/dbt-labs/segment/latest/) for the latest version number.
2. Run `dbt deps`
3. Include the following in your `dbt_project.yml` directly within your `vars:` block (making sure to handle indenting appropriately). **Update the value to point to your segment page views table**.

```YAML
# dbt_project.yml
config-version: 2
...

vars:
  dbt_segment:
    segment_page_views_table:
      - segment_pages

```
This package assumes that your data is in a structure similar to the test
file included in [example_segment_pages](integration_tests/seeds/example_segment_pages.csv).
You may have to do some pre-processing in an upstream model to get it into this shape.
Similarly, if you need to union multiple sources, de-duplicate records, or filter
out bad records, do this in an upstream model.

This package previously supported the ability to directly reference source data to use with the package. However, by introducing 
the ability to support multiple segment data sources, only models that can be called with a `ref()` function will be supported. If you were using source data before, simply create a new model called `segment_pages` for example, select * from your source data in that model, and list the name of that model under the segment_page_views_table variable.

4. Optionally configure extra parameters by adding them to your own `dbt_project.yml` file – see [dbt_project.yml](dbt_project.yml)
for more details:

```YAML
# dbt_project.yml
config-version: 2

...

vars:
  dbt_segment:
    segment_page_views_table:
      - segment_marketing_site_pages
      - segment_web_app_pages
    segment_sessionization_trailing_window: 3
    segment_inactivity_cutoff: 30 * 60
    segment_pass_through_columns: []
    segment_bigquery_partition_granularity: 'day' # BigQuery only: partition granularity for `partition_by` config

```
5. Execute `dbt seed` -- this project includes a CSV that must be seeded for it
the package to run successfully.
6. Execute `dbt run` – the Segment models will get built as part of your run!

## Helpful Notes
As of October 2023, this package supports the ability to sessionize data from multiple Segment data sources. If you're listing more than Segment data source in the `segment_page_views_table` variable, you'll need to indicate which `source_name` you wish to reference when querying any of the models.

For example:
```
select * from segment_web_page_views where source_name = 'segment_marketing_site_pages'
select * from segment_web_sessions where source_name = 'segment_web_app_pages'
```

## Database support
This package should work with Redshift, BigQuery, and Postgres. However, it is only being tested for compatibility with Snowflake.

### Contributing
Additional contributions to this repo are very welcome! Check out [this post](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/contributing-to-a-dbt-package/657) on the best workflow for contributing to a package. All PRs should only include functionality that is contained within all Segment deployments; no implementation-specific details should be included. CI jobs run on PRs will only test for postgres compatibility.
